Add rectangular hopper example for DEM (#617)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/examples/dem/rectangular-hopper/rectangular-hopper.rst

==================================
Rectangular hopper
==================================

> This example simulates the filling and discharge of particles in a rectangular hopper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example simulates the filling and discharging of particles in a rectangular hopper.
```

We set up this simulation based on the simulation of Anand et al. `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2008.08.015>`_. It is recommended to visit `DEM parameters <../../../parameters/dem/dem.html>`_ for more detailed information on the concepts and physical meanings of the parameters in Lethe-DEM.

Features
----------------------------------
- Solvers: ``dem_3d``
- Floating walls

> - Gmsh grids

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GMSH <https://gmsh.info/>`_ grids
```

> - Python post-processing script using PyVista

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Python post-processing script using `PyVista <https://docs.pyvista.org/>`_
```

Files used in this example
----------------------------
``/examples/dem/3d-rectangular-hopper/hopper.prm``

Description of the case
-----------------------

> This simulation consists of two stages: filling (0-4 s) and discharge (4-7.5 s) of particles. Anand et al. uses periodic boundaries in the z axis allowing to use a thin width for simulation. This case do not use periodic boundary in Lethe. Prior minimizing the impact of collision of particle with walls in z axis, the width and the number of particle were multiplied 6 times. This corresponds to a width of 15 times the particle diameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This simulation consists of two stages: filling (0-4 s) and discharge (4-7.5 s) of particles. Anand et al. uses periodic boundaries in the z axis allowing to use a thin width for simulation.  Since those are not available at the time in Lethe, we do not consider periodic boundaries. To minimize the impact of collision of particle with walls along the z axis, the width and the number of particle were multiplied by 6 (YYY particles instead of ZZZ). This corresponds to a width of 15 times the particle diameter.
```

Correct number of particles used

Parameter file
--------------

Mesh
~~~~~

The mesh is a hopper with 90° angle generated with GMSH having a top part for the filling and a bottom part which acts as a collector of the particle.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection mesh
        set type                                = gmsh
        set file name                           = hopper90.msh
        set initial refinement                  = 1
        set expand particle-wall contact search = false
        set check diamond cells                 = true
    end

.. figure:: images/packed_hopper.png
    :width: 300
    :alt: Mesh
    :align: center

    Rectangular hopper packed with particle before the discharge.

Insertion info
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> An insertion box is defined inside and the top part of the hopper. The inserted number is choose to be a factor of the total number of particle. In this case, 14 insertion step is require to fill up the hopper with particles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An insertion box is defined inside and the top part of the hopper. The inserted number of particles per time step is chosen to be a factor of the total number of particle. In this case, 14 insertion steps are required to fill up the hopper with particles.
```

.. code-block:: text

    subsection insertion info
        set insertion method                               = non_uniform
        set inserted number of particles at each time step = 2910
        set insertion frequency                            = 25000
        set insertion box minimum x                        = -0.1030
        set insertion box minimum y                        = 0.10644
        set insertion box minimum z                        = .00224
        set insertion box maximum x                        = 0.1030
        set insertion box maximum y                        = 0.16020
        set insertion box maximum z                        = 0.03136
        set insertion distance threshold                   = 1.5
        set insertion random number range                  = 0.1
        set insertion random number seed                   = 20
    end

Lagrangian physical properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The total number of particles in this simulation is 40740 with a diameter of 2.24 mm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The total number of particles in this simulation is 40740. All particles have a diameter of 2.24 mm.
```

Reviewer 2: Are the other physical properties extract from the Arndt paper?

.. code-block:: text

    subsection lagrangian physical properties
        set gx                       = 0.0
        set gy                       = -9.81
        set gz                       = 0.0
        set number of particle types = 1
        subsection particle type 0
            set size distribution type            = uniform
            set diameter                          = 0.00224
            set number                            = 40740
            set density particles                 = 2500

>             set young modulus particles           = 1000000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            set young modulus particles           = 1e6
```

            set poisson ratio particles           = 0.3
            set restitution coefficient particles = 0.94
            set friction coefficient particles    = 0.2
            set rolling friction particles        = 0.09
        end

>         set young modulus wall           = 1000000

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        set young modulus wall           = 1e6
```

        set poisson ratio wall           = 0.3
        set friction coefficient wall    = 0.2
        set restitution coefficient wall = 0.9
        set rolling friction wall        = 0.09
    end

Model parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> .. code-block:: text

Reviewer 2: I would just add a quick comment on how you chose the load balance frequency and the neighborhood treshold. Otherwise if you are using default values, remove these lines :)

Author: Will refer to the silo example, almost the same, I changed the `dynamic contact search size coefficient` for no specific reasons

    subsection model parameters
        set contact detection method                = dynamic
        set dynamic contact search size coefficient = 0.9
        set load balance method                     = frequent
        set load balance frequency                  = 200000
        set neighborhood threshold                  = 1.3
        set particle particle contact force method  = hertz_mindlin_limit_overlap
        set particle wall contact force method      = nonlinear
        set integration method                      = velocity_verlet
    end

Simulation control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: text

    subsection simulation control
        set time step        = 1e-5
        set time end         = 7.5
        set log frequency    = 1000
        set output frequency = 1000

>         set output path      = ./output/

Reviewer 2: Can you make sure the folder is pre-generated with a dummy file?
The automatic folder generation does not work for all OSes (it generally does but still)

Author: How? Is it done with in example?

Reviewer 2: you just make a file dummy in the output folder. Just a file with a random line it in. For example :
https://github.com/lethe-cfd/lethe/blob/master/examples/incompressible-flow/3d-nitsche-mixer-with-pbt-impeller/output/placeholder

        set output name      = hopper
    end

Floating walls
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Floating wall in this example is handled as explained in the `Silo example <../silo/silo.html>`_.

.. code-block:: text

    subsection floating walls
        set number of floating walls = 1
        subsection wall 0
            subsection point on wall
                set x = 0
                set y = 0
                set z = 0
            end
            subsection normal vector
                set nx = 0
                set ny = 1
                set nz = 0
            end
        set start time = 0
        set end time   = 4
        end
    end

Running the simulation
----------------------
This simulation can be launched by

.. code-block:: text

  mpirun -np 8 dem_3d hopper.prm

Post-precessing
---------------

> A Python post-processing code is provided with this exemple. It allows to process the flow rate of particle with a module reading the output files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Python post-processing code is provided with this example. It is used to measure the flow rate of particles with a module reading the output files.
```

Reviewer: In this example, it is not clear that pyvista is used here in the postprocessing. A phrase solves this problem :)

It also compares the data generated by the simulation to data from Anand et al. `[1] <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2008.08.015>`_.

It is possible to run the post-processing script ``hopper_post_processing.py`` with the following line. The arguments are the simulation path and the prm file name.

.. code-block:: text

    python3 hopper_post_processing.py ./ hopper.prm

Results post-processing
-----------------------

> Mass flow rate results after post-processing and comparison with the literature.

Reviewer: I would add the reference here.

Author: It's referenced already in a few places, but will put it there too.

> .. figure:: images/figure_hopper.png

Reviewer: In this image, you don't need to put the word "result" in the legend text.

Reviewer: Additionally, I would display the results in the literature as dots. They are not continuous, are they?

Author: I extracted them with Engauge Digitizer, I will have to redo it so I can have the real data points. Don't know why I didn't extract the points.

    :width: 600
    :alt: Results of mass flow rate.
    :align: center

>     Results of mass flow rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Mass flow rate results.
```

Results
-------

> As seen in the following figure, simulation wasn't run until all the particles are discharged in the bottom part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen in the following figure, the simulation was not run until all the particles are discharged in the bottom part.
```

> Since the mass flow rate is constant during the discharge, running the simulation at the very end is not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the mass flow rate is constant during the discharge, simulating the very end is not necessary.
```

> The computed mass discharged rate from the simulation is 86.94 g/s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulated mass discharging rate is 86.94 g/s.
```
